hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain discrete time fourier transform
similar to the continuous time fourier transform we will developed the discrete time fourier transform starting from an aperiodic signal and taking its periodic extension
we all know that we can represent a periodic discrete time signal as the linear combination of harmonically related complex exponentials
which is called fourier series representation
we can use a similar representation for aperiodic discrete time signals and it is called the discrete time fourier transform
when we are given an aperiodic signal we can periodically repeat the signal for some period n and obtain a periodic signal
this periodic signal is shown in the bottom of the slide and it is denoted by x tilda of n
note that if the period n goes to infinity the periodic signal x tilda of n will be equal to the aperiodic signal x of n
let's move on to the mathematical formulation of discrete time fourier transform
since x tilda of n is a periodic signal we can define its fourier series representation
then we can derive the equations for discrete time fourier transform pair from fourier series synthesis and analysis equations by assuming an infinite period
the first equation is called the inverse discrete time fourier transform and the second equation is called the discrete time fourier transform
here it is important to note that discrete time fourier transform is periodic with period two pie
the discrete time fourier transform equation converges either if the discrete time signal x of n is absolutely summable
or the sequence has finite energy
since the integral is over a finite interval there are no convergence issues associated with inverse fourier transform
as in the continuous time case we can incorporate discrete time periodic signals into the discrete time fourier transform framework
as given in the below equation
fourier transform of a periodic signal can be directly constructed from its fourier series coefficients
let's move on to the properties of discrete time fourier transform
this table summarizes the properties
most of these properties are very similar to their continuous time counterparts
here I will only emphasize the properties different than continuous time fourier transform
in contrast to the continuous time fourier transform discrete time fourier transform is periodic with period two pie
because of the discrete nature of the time index for discrete time signal
the relation between time and frequency scaling is different than its continuous time counterpart
while expanding a discrete time signal in time domain
we insert zeros for the time indexes where the time index is not a multiple of the expansion factor
this corresponds to compressing its fourier transform
the multiplication of discrete time signals in time domain corresponds to periodic convolution in frequency domain
note that the usual form of convolution has integral interval from minus infinity to plus infinity and it is often referred to as aperiodic convolution
other properties different than their continuous time counterparts are differencing in time and accumulation
you can think of these properties as discrete time counterparts of differentiation and integration properties
the other properties are quite similar to their continuous time counterparts
in this video I have explained discrete time fourier transform and its properties
let me know if you have any questions
thank you